
# Anypoint Template: Salesforce to Salesforce, Workday, SAP and Database Account Broadcast	

<!-- Header (start) -->

<!-- Header (end) -->

# License Agreement
This template is subject to the conditions of the <a href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/templates-examples/AnypointTemplateLicense.pdf">MuleSoft License Agreement</a>. Review the terms of the license before downloading and using this template. You can use this template for free with the Mule Enterprise Edition, CloudHub, or as a trial in Anypoint Studio. 
# Use Case
<!-- Use Case (start) -->
As a Salesforce admin I want to synchronize accounts from a Salesforce Org to another Salesforce Org, Workday, SAP and Database instances.

This Anypoint Template should serve as a foundation for setting an online sync of accounts from a Salesforce instance to many destination systems, using the Publish-subscribe pattern. Every time there is a new account or a change in an already existing one, the integration will poll for changes in the Salesforce source Org, publish the changes to a topic and each subscriber will be responsible for updating the accounts in the target systems.

Requirements have been set not only to be used as example, but also to establish a starting point to adapt the integration to your requirements.

As implemented, this Anypoint Template leverages the [Batch Module](http://www.mulesoft.org/documentation/display/current/Batch+Processing).
The batch job is divided into *Process* and *On Complete* stages.

The integration can be triggered in two different ways: by a scheduler defined in the endpoints file or by an outbound notification generated by Salesforce. Either way, the application queries/receives newest Salesforce updates/creations matching a filter criteria and adds them to a JMS topic.

The application has four different batch jobs consuming this JMS topic, one for migrating the changes to each target system (the second Salesforce Org, Workday, SAP and the DB). During the *Process* stage, each Salesforce account will be matched with an existing account in the target system by Name.
The last step of the *Process* stage will group the accounts and create/update them in target systems.

Finally during the *On Complete* stage the Anypoint Template will log output statistics data into the console.
<!-- Use Case (end) -->

# Considerations
<!-- Default Considerations (start) -->

<!-- Default Considerations (end) -->

<!-- Considerations (start) -->
To make this Anypoint Template run, there are certain preconditions that must be considered. All of them deal with the preparations in both source and destination systems, that must be made in order for all to run smoothly. **Failing to do so could lead to unexpected behavior of the template.**

1. The batch will fail, if you do not provide correct value for Workday Customer Category Id. You will need to extend the custom mapping, contained in **Transform Account To SubmitCustomerRequest Type** transformation, if accounts with a different than five mapped Salesforce Industry / Workday Customer Category values are updated.
<!-- Considerations (end) -->

## DB Considerations

This template uses date time or timestamp fields from the database to do comparisons and take further actions. While the template handles the time zone by sending all such fields in a neutral time zone, it cannot handle time offsets. (Time offsets are time differences that may surface between date time and timestamp fields from different systems due to a differences in each system's internal clock.)
Take this in consideration and take the actions needed to avoid the time offset.


### As a Data Destination

There are no considerations with using a database as a data destination.
## SAP Considerations

Here's what you need to know to get this template to work with SAP.


### As a Data Destination

There are no considerations with using SAP as a data destination.
## Salesforce Considerations

Here's what you need to know about Salesforce to get this template to work:

- Where can I check that the field configuration for my Salesforce instance is the right one? See: <a href="https://help.salesforce.com/HTViewHelpDoc?id=checking_field_accessibility_for_a_particular_field.htm&language=en_US">Salesforce: Checking Field Accessibility for a Particular Field</a>.
- Can I modify the Field Access Settings? How? See: <a href="https://help.salesforce.com/HTViewHelpDoc?id=modifying_field_access_settings.htm&language=en_US">Salesforce: Modifying Field Access Settings</a>.

### As a Data Source

If the user who configured the template for the source system does not have at least *read only* permissions for the fields that are fetched, then an *InvalidFieldFault* API fault displays.

```
java.lang.RuntimeException: [InvalidFieldFault [ApiQueryFault 
[ApiFault  exceptionCode='INVALID_FIELD'
exceptionMessage='Account.Phone, Account.Rating, Account.RecordTypeId, 
Account.ShippingCity
^
ERROR at Row:1:Column:486
No such column 'RecordTypeId' on entity 'Account'. If you are attempting to 
use a custom field, be sure to append the '__c' after the custom field name. 
Reference your WSDL or the describe call for the appropriate names.'
]
row='1'
column='486'
]
]
```

### As a Data Destination

There are no considerations with using Salesforce as a data destination.


## Workday Considerations


### As a Data Destination

There are no considerations with using Workday as a data destination.






# Run it!
Simple steps to get this template running.
<!-- Run it (start) -->

<!-- Run it (end) -->

## Running On Premises
In this section we detail the way you have to run you Anypoint Temple on you computer.

Once your app is all set and started, there is no need to do anything else. The application will poll Account to know if there are any newly created or updated objects and synchronice them.
<!-- Running on premise (start) -->

<!-- Running on premise (end) -->

### Where to Download Anypoint Studio and the Mule Runtime
If you are new to Mule, download this software:

+ [Download Anypoint Studio](https://www.mulesoft.com/platform/studio)
+ [Download Mule runtime](https://www.mulesoft.com/lp/dl/mule-esb-enterprise)

**Note:** Anypoint Studio requires JDK 8.
<!-- Where to download (start) -->

<!-- Where to download (end) -->

### Importing a Template into Studio
In Studio, click the Exchange X icon in the upper left of the taskbar, log in with your Anypoint Platform credentials, search for the template, and click Open.
<!-- Importing into Studio (start) -->

<!-- Importing into Studio (end) -->

### Running on Studio
After you import your template into Anypoint Studio, follow these steps to run it:

+ Locate the properties file `mule.dev.properties`, in src/main/resources.
+ Complete all the properties required as per the examples in the "Properties to Configure" section.
+ Right click the template project folder.
+ Hover your mouse over `Run as`.
+ Click `Mule Application (configure)`.
+ Inside the dialog, select Environment and set the variable `mule.env` to the value `dev`.
+ Click `Run`.
<!-- Running on Studio (start) -->

<!-- Running on Studio (end) -->

### Running on Mule Standalone
Update the properties in one of the property files, for example in mule.prod.properties, and run your app with a corresponding environment variable. In this example, use `mule.env=prod`. 


## Running on CloudHub
While [creating your application on CloudHub](http://www.mulesoft.org/documentation/display/current/Hello+World+on+CloudHub) (Or you can do it later as a next step), you need to go to Deployment > Advanced to set all environment variables detailed in **Properties to be configured** as well as the **mule.env**. 

Once your app is all set and started, there is no need to do anything else. Every time an account is created or modified, it will be automatically synchronized to Salesforce Org B, Workday and SAP systems and the Database as long as it matches the filtering criteria.
<!-- Running on Cloudhub (start) -->

<!-- Running on Cloudhub (end) -->

### Deploying a Template in CloudHub
In Studio, right click your project name in Package Explorer and select Anypoint Platform > Deploy on CloudHub.
<!-- Deploying on Cloudhub (start) -->

<!-- Deploying on Cloudhub (end) -->

## Properties to Configure
To use this template, configure properties such as credentials, configurations, etc.) in the properties file or in CloudHub from Runtime Manager > Manage Application > Properties. The sections that follow list example values.
### Application Configuration
<!-- Application Configuration (start) -->
+ http.port `8081`
+ page.size `200`
+ scheduler.frequency `60000`
+ scheduler.start.delay `0`
+ watermark.default.expression `2016-12-13T03:00:59Z`
+ trigger.policy `push`

    **Note**: the property `trigger.policy` can assume only one of the values above either *push* or *poll*

**Database Connector configuration**

+ db.host `localhost`
+ db.port `3306`
+ db.user `mule`
+ db.password `mule`
+ db.databasename `template-sfdc2sfdc.wday.sap.db-account-broadcast`

    **Note**: If it is required to connect to a different Database there should be provided the jar for the library and changed the value of that field in the connector.

**Salesforce Connector configuration for company A**

+ sfdc.a.username `bob.dylan@orga`
+ sfdc.a.password `DylanPassword123`
+ sfdc.a.securityToken `avsfwCUl7apQs56Xq2AKi3X`

**Salesforce Connector configuration for company B**

+ sfdc.b.username `joan.baez@orgb`
+ sfdc.b.password `JoanBaez456`
+ sfdc.b.securityToken `ces56arl7apQs56XTddf34X`

**SAP Connector configuration**

+ sap.jco.ashost `your.sap.address.com`
+ sap.jco.user `SAP_USER`
+ sap.jco.passwd `SAP_PASS`
+ sap.jco.sysnr `14`
+ sap.jco.client `800`
+ sap.jco.lang `EN`

+ sap.default.accountGroup `ZAG2`

**WorkDay Connector configuration**

+ wday.username `username`
+ wday.tenant `tenant`
+ wday.password `ExamplePassword565`
+ wday.host `services1.workday.com`

+ category.biotechnology `CUSTOMER_CATEGORY-6`
+ category.financialServices `CUSTOMER_CATEGORY-1`
+ category.hospitality `CUSTOMER_CATEGORY-4`
+ category.manufacturing `CUSTOMER_CATEGORY-4-8`
+ category.technology `CUSTOMER_CATEGORY-5`
+ category.default `CUSTOMER_CATEGORY-5`

A Category group defines CUSTOMER_CATEGORY_ID for each category as identified in Workday. The values are used for mapping Salesforce Account Industry field to Workday Customer Category. 
If the category is not found between the specified industries, the **category.default** is used.
<!-- Application Configuration (end) -->

# API Calls
<!-- API Calls (start) -->
Salesforce imposes limits on the number of API Calls that can be made. Therefore calculating this amount may be an important factor to consider. The Anypoint Template calls to the API can be calculated using the formula:

***1 + X + X / ${page.size}***

Being ***X*** the number of Accounts to be synchronized on each run. 

The division by ***${page.size}*** is because, by default, Accounts are gathered in groups of ${page.size} for each Upsert API Call in the commit step. Also consider that these calls are executed repeatedly every polling cycle.	

For instance if 10 records are fetched from origin instance, then 12 api calls will be made (1 + 10 + 1).
<!-- API Calls (end) -->

# Customize It!
This brief guide provides a high level understanding of how this template is built and how you can change it according to your needs. As Mule applications are based on XML files, this page describes the XML files used with this template. More files are available such as test classes and Mule application files, but to keep it simple, we focus on these XML files:

* config.xml
* businessLogic.xml
* endpoints.xml
* errorHandling.xml<!-- Customize it (start) -->

<!-- Customize it (end) -->

## config.xml
<!-- Default Config XML (start) -->
This file provides the configuration for connectors and configuration properties. Only change this file to make core changes to the connector processing logic. Otherwise, all parameters that can be modified should instead be in a properties file, which is the recommended place to make changes.<!-- Default Config XML (end) -->

<!-- Config XML (start) -->

<!-- Config XML (end) -->

## businessLogic.xml
<!-- Default Business Logic XML (start) -->
The business logic XML file creates or updates objects in the destination system for a represented use case. You can customize and extend the logic of this template in this XML file to more meet your needs.<!-- Default Business Logic XML (end) -->

<!-- Business Logic XML (start) -->

<!-- Business Logic XML (end) -->

## endpoints.xml
<!-- Default Endpoints XML (start) -->
This is file is conformed by a two Flows.

The first one we'll call it **push** flow. This one contains an HTTP endpoint that will be listening for notifications from Salesforce . Each of them will be processed and thus update/create Accounts, and then executing the batch job process.

The second one we'll call it **poll** flow. This one contains the Poll endpoint that will periodically query Salesforce for updated/created Accounts that meet the defined criteria in the query, and then executing the batch job process.

The property **trigger.policy** is the one in charge of defining from which endpoint the Template will recieve the data. The property can only assume one of two values `push` or `poll` any other value will result in the Template ignoring all messages.<!-- Default Endpoints XML (end) -->

<!-- Endpoints XML (start) -->

<!-- Endpoints XML (end) -->

## errorHandling.xml
<!-- Default Error Handling XML (start) -->
This file handles how your integration reacts depending on the different exceptions. This file provides error handling that is referenced by the main flow in the business logic.<!-- Default Error Handling XML (end) -->

<!-- Error Handling XML (start) -->

<!-- Error Handling XML (end) -->

<!-- Extras (start) -->

<!-- Extras (end) -->
